This is Senator Estes' key for them.
I hope that you will all circle your calendar for May 10th.
The occasion is the Percipes Memorial Dinner to be held that evening in the Maxwell House
in Nashville.
Sam Rayburn, the speaker of the House of Representatives who himself is a Tennessean,
will be the honored guest.
The dinner is for a very worthy cause, a new public school in Nashville.
And it will honor the memory of a great and good man, a fine Tennessean, Percy Priest.
Thank you very much.
Ladies and gentlemen, friends of Tennessee, I want to discuss with you today the builds
approved by the Senate Judiciary Committee and sponsored by Senator William General of
Indiana and John Marshall Butler of Maryland.
These bills result from disagreement with Supreme Court decisions.
They seek to overturn the decisions in various ways by limiting the jurisdiction of the court
or by broadly rewriting statutes which the court has interpreted.
I think they are very dangerous legislation.
I have hoarded against them and I shall oppose them on the floor of the Senate.
I doubt it bears a person in the United States who agrees with every decision the Supreme
Court makes.
Certainly, the justices do not always agree, sometimes split as five to four even among them.
And neither do I always agree with the majority.
Nevertheless, we made a decision in this country a long, long time ago.
And that decision was that we would have three coordinated branches of government, the
executive, the legislative, and the judicial, each acting as a check on the other.
And I will be no party to the destruction or seriously crippling of any of these three.
I do not have time to discuss with you fully all the implications of these amendments.
Why would Senators General and Butler sought to do with their amendments?
Why is to undo 150 years of legislative and judicial history with a sweep of the pen and
without even waiting for adequate hearings?
The bill denies a pellet jurisdiction to the Supreme Court over any law, rule, or regulation
pertaining to admission of persons to practice law within the state.
This results from disagreement with a decision in which a person who was a former communist
but who had their repented was denied admission to the bar in New Mexico.
It is not whether that the man who secluded the motion to deny the admission and who may
have disagreed with the decision expressed his opposition to this bill of the Judiciary
Committee, the president of the American Bar Association opposed it.
The southern there is certainly all to oppose it.
The last time bar membership was denied was by reconstruction governments after the war
between the states and the Supreme Court upheld their right to membership.
And another thing you remember that the only time jurisdiction has been taken away from
the Supreme Court was in some of the Reconstruction Acts which other Congress passed and President
Johnson vetoed.
But the Congress of the United States just a few months after gave the jurisdiction back
to the Supreme Court.
But the most serious thing is that it sets a precedent of limiting jurisdiction to the
Court.
Under this line of reasoning every time you don't like a decision, the thing to do is to take
another bit of jurisdiction away from the Court.
This is a kill the umpire technique.
Only here you would be killing him by degrees.
Starting with a decision that he couldn't call balls and strikes and moving by degrees
and to bases and fouls.
The bill would give the Congressional committees the final determination of what is not pertinent.
I've been chairman of many investigating committees ranging from the crime committee
into the more complex fields of monopoly legislation.
A good committee doesn't have to violate the bill of rights in order to conduct a thorough
investigation.
And I want the courts to remain as referees over committees.
Another section of the bill gives the states a right to say what shall be a subversive
sedition against the United States.
In other words, to give the states the right to enforce the laws of the United States.
I think that state jurisdiction and federal jurisdiction ought to be kept separately.
The last section of the bill attempts to undo the doctrine almost 50 years old that teaching
or advocating the overthrow of the government must be accompanied by a clear and present danger.
It broadens the base of such advocacy by saying in any way or by any means.
This of course is aimed at the communists whom we all dislike.
In my opinion, the best way to control them high is to keep them talking.
And when you say in any way or by any means as the bill does, that could be by a letter
of speech and editorial or a careless word.
And it doesn't necessarily mean a communist word.
It might be an editorial advice and defiance of the court's school decision.
You see, when you begin to impinge on liberty a little bit, you sometimes find that you
have stepped on it all together.
We've grown to be a great country by speaking and acting freely.
A quick and easy way to become second-rate is to limit our basic freedoms of thought,
of speech, of press, of religion, and of action.
Thank you and goodbye until next week.
Ladies and gentlemen, friends of Tennessee, one of the great problems and also quite an
issue before the Congress, I suppose, one of the biggest issues we have before this
Congress, because it is highly controversial, is the proposed reorganization of the defense
department as recommended by President Eisenhower.
And we have here to discuss the matter with us today and to answer some questions, General
John Howe.
General Howe is an old friend of mine of House of Representatives Bays and a Bays here
in the Senate.
He has lots of friends in Tennessee.
And as a special assistant to Secretary of Defense, Michael Roy, he is taking the lead and
presenting the administration's plan for the reorganization of the defense department.
He certainly had led the heavy-widdest, General Howe.
And what about this reorganization plan?
What's the importance of?
Senator, I considered a very real privilege to have the opportunity of appearing with you
on this program.
And I am delighted that it is an opportunity which is an indication of a long personal
friendship which I have been privileged to enjoy for a good many years.
Well, both as a member of the armed services committee and personally, it's been wonderful
to work with you all of these years.
Thank you, Senator.
I don't think it's one of the highest privileges.
As you are aware, the Department of Defense is the largest of the executive departments.
It's, incidentally, General Howe, just how much are we spending on defense every year?
What part of our tax dollar in Hamilton?
In round numbers, our expenditures presently are running about $40 billion a year.
That doesn't include mutual security.
That does not include mutual security.
That you include all items which could be properly charged to defense of the United States
and of the free world.
It runs nearly 80 cents out of every dollar paid by the people of the United States.
You mean 80 cents of every tax dollars?
The viewers and listeners don't really that.
It isn't close to defense.
But that's a better indication of understanding it because I never could understand just
what $40 billion meant.
It's too big a sum to the average individuals understand.
Now that is an indication of why we feel that our organization must be such that it's
not only is prepared to respond promptly, efficiently, to any enemy threat to our country or
to the free world, but we also must be so organized that to guarantee to the people of the
United States that we're not going to waste that money.
That we're going to get the maximum amount of defense out of every dollar which they
provide for us.
But how come that waste issue is that we all know that the expenses, expenses, and bound
to be wasteful, seems to me this reorganization would help us save us money.
We certainly don't know.
It is not a question of conscious waste, but it's a question of efficiency.
It's efficiency of organization and of administration in order that we can respond with the maximum
military efficiency which in turn through proper and efficient administration will actually
result in a maximum of savings.
Now I'm afraid Senator that I must say that the dollar savings will not be reflected
in future budgets because as we go to new weapons they are fantastically expensive.
But we hope that while there will be continued requirement for very large sums of money
that we have to ask Congress to appropriate that we can through a better organization demonstrate
a more effective use of that money both in administration and in actually producing
defense for our country.
Well, as I know how now in connection with the services the Air Force, the Navy, and the
Army it doesn't abolish the separate services but attempts to fully unify them.
Is that correct?
I would say yes.
What we are trying to do is to retain the very real assets which are inherent in the
pride of service such as in the old Army units.
I wish that we could discuss this program long time.
I just want to say that I feel generally that there is a great deal of merit in the
presence of the organization's program.
I hope some program will be passed.
Thank you very much General Howard and that's all friends until next week.
Ladies and gentlemen, friends of Tennessee.
Very shortly now the House of Representatives will consider the bill to extend the reciprocal
trade agreements.
This measure faces heavy opposition in the House and there's opposition also in the United
States Senate.
The House has just completed consideration and passage of the foreign aid bill and that
legislation will soon be before the Senate also.
I mention these two measures because they are of such overriding importance and the developing
climate of opinion as a result of unfortunate incidents abroad will undoubtedly throw more
hurdles into their paths.
I am thinking of Vice President Nixon's unfortunate reception in Latin America of the burning
of USI libraries in the Middle East and of the confused conditions in France.
It is unfortunate that these things happen at any time but the worst thing we could do in
retaliation would be to withdraw into our shell and ignore the interest of the people of
Latin America or the rest of the world.
I think no one will seriously challenge my belief that it is of critical importance that
we retain strong allies throughout the world.
We cannot adopt the policy of going at a loan in our struggle with international communism.
It isn't easy to be a world leader but history has given us that position.
Without allies we would exhaust ourselves in military preparedness and we would see the
communist world expand by enveloping most of those nations who formerly stood with us.
The Latin American nations have stood with us all the way through and France is the key
stone to Western Europe without which we cannot contain communism.
All of us I am sure it will be more easily concerning France with a fear showing by General
Degas that he will not throw this unhappy country into a state of civil war.
If the President of France will now take its vote of strength and strengthen its constitution
and courageously tackle the problems of France then I believe that crises will be weathered
and the nation will emerge stronger and more democratic than ever.
What will happen if the generals in Algeria are not curved as anyone's guess?
Latin America hasn't passed not only been one of our staunch supporters in every war but
it has also been one of our best customers in times of peace and one of our best sources
of products we need.
The Trojum copper layered zinc, manganese, nickel, tungsten and such useful but less vital
commodities as coffee and bananas all come from Latin America.
In addition United States citizens have private investments in a book value around 8 billion
dollars in Latin America.
But a pure self interest therefore it is well for us to look beneath the surface of the
riots and the troubles and determine what might be done to better our relations.
They were once very good when our own Tennessee and Cordell Hall inaugurated the good neighbor
policy and made a trip through South America where he was received with great good will.
They continued good.
Henry Wallace when he was vice president and more lately Dr. Milton Asenhauer the president's
brother.
He also record received on good will trips to Latin America.
I'm glad that a subcommittee of the Senate Foreign Relations Committee has begun to study
to determine what brought about the deterioration in relations and what can be done about it.
Whatever brought it about and I am certain that restricted trade, a lack of capital for
development, the meddling of the communist, unfortunate relations we have had in the past
with some South American dictators all played a part.
I'm sure that the feet are crippling of the reciprocal trade bill and the foreign aid
bill will not cure it.
We must remember also that the lot of the leader of the world is not always a popular one.
We remember when Britain ruled the waves and was the leader of the world.
A popular pastime consisted in twisting the line's tail.
Nevertheless, Britain had the respect of the world and it is for that which we must strive.
And we will never attain that respect or retain our leadership.
If our policies vacillate or if we blow hot and cold in such vital measures as reciprocal
trade, we must expect and be prepared for the long pull.
And we will as a result neither be over-related by temporary successes or overly discouraged
by temporary setbacks.
If we follow this kind of program, we will really be in a position to work for our peace
and for dignity in the world.
Thank you and goodbye until next week.
Ladies and gentlemen, friends of Tennessee, this has been a great week and as far as
atomic energy use is concerned here in the United States.
This week the shipping port atomic energy plant was put into operation putting electricity
on the land.
And this week the skip jack, the new atomic submarine was launched at New London Connecticut.
These two things and they are submarine program and are a nuclear reactor electric program
have been made possible by the unusual ability to driving force the determination of one
naval officer in the United States.
And that man is with us today.
I am very happy to present to you listeners Admiral Hammond Rickover who is responsible
for the atomic submarine and the main development that made the shipping port plant possible.
Admiral is good to have you with us and we certainly would appreciate if you tell us something
about the submarine atomic submarine program and then also the shipping port plant a little
later on.
I got my start in your home states another at Oak Ridge.
The Navy sent me to Oak Ridge in 1946 together with a group of naval officers and civilians
to study about atomic energy.
And it was while we were there that we conceived the idea of the nuclear submarines and subsequently
the shipping port station.
So we were very grateful to you for having such a fine state and since for being the birthplace
of all of this.
We are glad that these two great developments have their beginning and Tennessee under your
direction Admiral Rickover.
Now what was our first atomic submarine that you developed and was launched?
The first submarine was the Nautilus.
She was launched in 1954 and started operating shortly thereafter.
She has now steamed more than 100,000 miles.
Would you like to hear some of the records that you are asking?
Yes, tell us about what the submarines have been accomplishing or the Nautilus.
The Nautilus established the long distance record for a ship's things of marriage without
surfacing last year and that was 5,000 and seven miles.
Another very interesting and significant thing that she did was to stay under the ice for
1,400 miles.
She came within 180 miles of the North Pole and only gave up the venture because she
had to engage in NATO exercises last year.
How long did that mean the Nautilus was under the polar ice cap?
She was under for five and a half days and waters that had never been traversed by any
human being or by any vehicle made by human beings.
But tell us about some of the accomplishments of the later atomic submarines.
How many do we have now?
We have a total of 23 either in operation or being constructed.
Six of them including the Skipjack which you mentioned a moment ago have been launched.
And the day before the Skipjack was launched, two of our submarines returned from another
notable cruise.
These were the sea wolf and the skate, the second and third of our submarines.
I hear that when I'm going so fast you have to fast your seat belts in order to stay
in it.
Well I don't think it's quite that fast.
I know you people from Tennessee are pretty fast but we're not quite as fast as that.
Well anyway that's a good illustration of how fast we are getting with the comic
submarine.
Because these two submarines steam totally submerged for about 10,000 miles without surfacing
and they were submerged for more than a month.
Well I've ever come to the surface and this is a record which has never been eaten before.
Well I'm on the Armed Services Committee and I know that all this has been possible because
of the drive and the breaking through the red tape and the determination to get these
jobs done by you Admiral Rickles.
It's also due to the great help we get from understanding people such as you in Congress
and I would not be willing to be rolling efforts.
Now tell us something about the shipping port plant we just have a few seconds left.
In 1953 the Atomic Energy Commission with a backing of Congress and the National Security
Council decided to build a large scale central station power plant.
The shipping port plant is that one.
We built it in about the same time we designed it, developed it and built it in about the
same time that it takes to build a conventional power plant.
Well thank you very much Admiral Rick over.
It's good to have you with us and we hope you'll come back to Tennessee again sometime
soon.
Thank you.
Ladies and gentlemen, friends of Tennessee.
One of the most important people in the federal government of the United States happens
to have spent a great deal of time in Tennessee.
He is the United States Commissioner of Education, Lawrence D'Earthick.
For many years was the superintendent of education in the city of Chattanooga where he made
a great record.
He has many, many friends in Tennessee and I know his friends will be glad to see him
on this program today.
We are not proud of Commissioner D'Earthick.
You're not only does things here but along with other educators you have been to the Soviet
Union.
So, study and to find out about their education system and I believe you came back before
yesterday, Laura.
Yes, then back one day.
Well, tell us about your trip and how long we're in the Soviet Union and what you find
out about education.
Well, Senator, first thank you for that gracious introduction and I'm glad to greet my friends
in Tennessee on your program.
We had a very intensive schedule.
There were ten of us on this team outstanding the other nine at least were outstanding educators
in the United States, the parties and their field.
We were one of the first teams in the cultural exchange agreement signed between our two
countries.
We were therefore official guests of the Soviet Union and to be a guest of the Soviet Union
is particularly significant because the doors are open and we were privileged to see anything
we wanted to see and we traveled by a special airplane over many thousands of miles.
Well, we went to after our studies in the Moscow area, we went to Kazan and the entire
autonomous republic.
We went over to Severed Lose in the Ural, the Pittsburgh of the Ural, and the Siberia
and then we went down coast to our joining the Chinese border in Kazakistan and Almaha
and then over to Taishkent, New Uzbekistan, alongside of Afghanistan and then over to Sochi
on the Black Sea.
Yes, I had a privilege of going there.
That's the great bathing place.
Yes, but we didn't have much bathing they put us to work.
Well, Laurence, what were your outstanding impressions of these several weeks that you went
all over the Soviet Union?
Well, the outstanding impression of our team of 10 was almost frightening in the sense of
our realization of the total commitment that that nation of 220 million people with their
vast resources are making education.
Well, what talk we saw them making is a real challenge to us here in the United States.
Well, I should say it is that you see not only are there budgets for education adequate,
they're building buildings very rapidly, their equipment is good, but every segment of Soviet
society is tied in with the schools.
That's the one-time thing they're putting emphasis on.
They're betting on education to win the race for supremacists.
And how about the teachers?
When I remember when I was there three years ago I remember they were quite well-tieded.
Yes, teachers are at the top of the scale.
We did a lot of study on that.
They're paid at the same as doctors, medical doctors and engineers.
That is the secondary school teachers.
The elementary teachers are slight nights below.
The university teachers are at the top of the scale.
But the high school teachers are paid as our doctors.
Well, are they placing particular emphasis on science and technology or what about their
general education?
Well, they have a general education that of course emphasizes mathematics and science,
but they also emphasize other fields too.
And recently they're giving emphasis to really industrial education.
Well, are they devoting more of their national budget to education than we are here?
Well, it's very difficult to make that kind of comparison.
I can say that the school people were never concerned and seemed surprised that our questions
about budget, they have the money to pay these top salaries to provide the equipment.
And on top of that industry and other agents are required to contribute.
Well, Commissioner D'Earthick, I know that your friends and tennis players are glad to
see you and to hear your report.
I wish we had more time, but our time has run out.
That's all until next week.
Thank you very much.
Friends, Senator Keith Ober of Tennessee, who was Democratic candidate firm of ice president
of the United States in 1956, is so well known he needs no introduction anywhere in the United
States.
Senator, you and I served in the House of Representatives.
I hope to be with you in the United States Senate, after next January.
I welcome you today.
Well, Steve Young, it certainly has a pleasure to be on this program with you.
I remember so well when I first came to the House of Representatives back in 1940 and
you were an experienced member.
And then after your term then you resigned to go into the armed services of the United
States and then you came back in 1948 and served on the Ways and Means Committee.
I enjoyed the service with you in the House of Representatives.
I think you did an outstanding job for the people of Ohio and the nation.
Always when they, side of the plain people was up and they needed protection with a vote
or needed someone to speak for them, you were always ready and willing to do so.
So that I do hope you'll be with us here in the United States Senate.
We have a lot of very important issues before the people of the United States and the Senate
and your past experience and the House of Representatives.
And I've kept up with your political and economic and social activity since that time will
be of great benefit to the nation and certainly to our democratic cause.
You and I almost invariably voted alike, Senator.
May I ask you what do you consider some of the dominant issues in this campaign?
Well, you talk about us voting alike.
I know we always had the same general philosophy, but maybe you had not say too much about
that, but I remember one thing that you're always in favor of keeping up the defenses of
this nation, of keeping our nation strong and that you voted for appropriations for all
of our armed services in order that we could have adequate strength to defend ourselves.
I think the dominant issues in this campaign, Steve, is you so well know are that this administration
came into power on two big ideas.
First, they could run the business of the country better that they knew a lot about business.
Well, they've failed in that.
We've had more inflation every month by month and we've had the poor.
We have unemployment.
Our factories are not producing.
We have a great deal of suffering and over 5 million people unemployed.
The tight money policy has hurt the small business man, the farmer and people all up and
down the line.
So we need a democratic administration that will expand our economy, keep our people employed
and see that we economically as well as other ways have full productivity.
The Democratic Party has the leadership and the ability to do that and this administration
has shown that it doesn't.
The next second thing is that we supposed to be good in foreign policy, the Republican
administration.
Well, we've lost friends in the Middle East.
We've lost them in South America.
We've lost them in Asia and our North Atlantic Treaty organization has been calling apart
and straining at the bits.
So there isn't any reason why we can't be the leading nation in the world if we have
an enlightened foreign policy that the Democratic Party will bring back.
The two things the Republicans were elected on, they failed.
I think the people know that and they are looking for Democrats like you to come to the United
States Senate and help us get the job done.
Well, of course, involuntary unemployment as you and I both know is a great moral wrong.
And at the same time to have this ever spiraling upward cost of living, of flicking our people,
that is the dominant issue.
I agree with your senator.
That is the dominant.
And there's no reason.
No reason why it should be that way.
The tight money policy of this administration resulted in that.
Good.
We don't believe them.
We have to be with you, old pal.
Glad to see you.
Ladies and gentlemen, friends of Tennessee, as chairman of the political
committee of the NATO Parliamentarians conference, it has become necessary for me to attend a meeting
in Europe this weekend to make plans for the Hague-type Congress of which all 17 NATO nations
will attend and which will be held next year.
I'm leaving Washington Thursday night for the meeting in Paris and will return Sunday
night.
At the meeting will be the president of the NATO Parliamentarians conference, Colonel
Femmes of the Netherlands, Congressman Wayne Hayes of O'Hah, who is vice president
of the conference, representatives of the parliament of all of the other NATO nations
and myself.
Also president will be representative citizens from all of the other NATO nations, distinguished
people who are very much interested.
As you know, NATO will be ten years old next year.
During those ten years it has been the free works bulwark against communism.
This partnership of free nations packs together the power that has made it possible to keep
freedom alive and vibrant on this earth.
Naturally we have not always agreed with all that our allies have done and they have not
always agreed with what we have done.
But together we have weathered many storms which otherwise might have sunk our nations individually.
Next year we will be starting our second decade as a NATO alliance.
At the meeting of the parliamentarians conference last November I sponsored a resolution which
called for this Hig-type Congress in 1959.
I felt that we ought to be planning our second decade and that in these plans we ought not
limit ourselves entirely to the diplomats and representatives of the governments.
We ought to tap the minds and imaginations of the people themselves.
This resolution passed unanimously.
This Congress will be held and the meeting this weekend is to make plans for it to decide
where and when during 1959 it will be held and what will be done to Congress and so on.
I am very excited about its prospects.
There is nothing more important in this world than peace.
Peace like everything else doesn't just happen.
We have to work to bring it about and in the work we will have to tap all of our resources,
all of our people who have contributions to make.
We cannot let small things that divide us overcome the big things that unite us and the
best way to prevent that is to freely discuss among ourselves both our differences and
our aspirations.
I shall tell you more of my observations of this very important meeting next week.
Meanwhile I wanted to add on the domestic side that this past week in Congress has certainly
been a very busy one.
This is the season of the year when we began to see results of a lot of pains taking
work that has gone earlier.
I was pleased with some of the results obtained this last week.
The Senate passed the appropriations bill for public works.
I am happy to say that it included $75,000 to be used as planning money for flood control
work in northwest Tennessee on the Forkett deer and the Obine Rivers where they have had
so much rain and destruction for the last few years.
This has been a very great problem for a number of years.
And now that the local groups are organized it will be possible to get this appropriation
and have the aid of the United States engineers in solving the very great drainage problem
in that part of our state.
Also there was $550,000 appropriation for continuation of the work on the Memphis
Harvard.
This will make possible the completion of the protection necessary on the Tennessee
River.
So that this land, known generally as insulated bottoms, will be available for our industrial
usage.
Also in the bill it was $50,000 for planning work for the Melton Hill Dam to be built
by the TVA on the Flint River near Oak Ridge.
With this money and with the proceeds of the TVA self-financing bill which passed the Senate
last year and which I hope will soon pass the House, TVA will be able to go forward with
this new dam which will mean so much not only for power and navigation but also for recreation
to the people around Oak Ridge and Clinton and Knoxville.
It will be one of the best TVA dams.
Also in the bill was money for the Barclay Dam or the Cheedham work on the Cheedham
Dam and other work on the Cumberland River.